Using a virtual Ising Machine to do Monte Carlo simulations
===============================================================

Abstract
--------

There has recently been work done in building physical realizations of the pure Ising Model. At the same time there has been significant development in the research around which algorithms can be solved by the Ising Model. These have mainly focused on optimization and NP-complete problems. Here, another use is proposed. In this work Monte Carlo distributions are generated using a virtual Ising Machine. The explored problem of self-avoiding random walk is solved and used as a tester of this method.

Introduction
------------
The Ising model was proposed almost 100 years ago. Few other models av been studied to the same extent. It has found applications in many areas, from materials science to machine learning. The task of solving it - both numerically and analytically - has drawn great interest. When applied, a numerical solution using the Monte Carlo method is most often used. In this work, this thinking is reverses and a virtual ising machine is set to generate Monte Carlo data.

Recently two fields have pushed the Ising Model into new territory. Firstly the use of the Ising Model as an optimizing algorithm. This interest have been driven by the development alternative ways of computing, especially Adiabatic Quantum Computation with devices such as D-wave. Secondly the research into other alternative circuits have permitted the implementation of pure Ising Machines, such as coherent Ising machines. The focus in both these cases is on optimization and in extension all NP-complete problems. In this work the focus is on generating a good Monte Carlo distribution. If a hardware Ising Machine could be used as a generator of Monte Carlo data this could mean a huge benefit in all the areas where Monte Carlo simulations are used. Both in terms of speed and energy consumption.

This project has been carried out in the following steps.
- A numerical solver of an all-to-all connected Ising Model was made. This would serve as a virtual Ising Machine.
- The self-avoiding random walk was chosen as a suitable problem to explore since it can be solved quite naturally using the Monte Carlo method.
- An independent numerical solver of the self-avoiding random walk was implemented for comparison.
- The self-avoiding walk was represented in a way that could be mapped to the spins of an Ising Model.
- A data set of self-avoiding walks was generated.
- This data set was used to "train" the Ising Model by assigning different weights to the connections between spins. These weighted connections can be seen as a representation of the Monte Carlo distribution.
- New self-avoiding random walks were generated by starting the Ising Model from a random configuration an letting it relax to a ground state.
- The ground state spins now represented a self-avoiding random walk that was mapped back to a self-avoding walk form.
- The walks generated by the "classic" solver were compared to the ones generated by the Ising Machine to assess its properties.

This article is outlayed as follows.
- Problem description an outline of the idea behind the work.
- A brief account of the virtual Ising Machine and the self-avoiding walk generator used.
- It is described in more detail how the self-avoing walk was mapped to the ising model.
- A description of how this method is used for doing the actual numerical work of
    * Training the Ising Network
    * Using that network to generate ground state results
    * Mapping those results back to self-avoiding random walks.
 
Problem description
-------------------
### Some Monte Carlo distributions are hard to generate
Monte Carlo simulations are extremely useful tools. They can give fantastic estimates of quantities without us having to understand or solve the whole problem. Using the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm for example, sampling from the distribution is possible without knowing the distribution, but instead using rules applicable to the system. To test the distributions generated in this work, a similar approach is used. Therefore, a problem where the final distribution is not known was chosen, the self-avoiding random walk. This problem is particularly suited for experiments like this, because it is straightforward to test whether a given random walk is part of the self-avoiding set or not. In fact this is how self-avoiding walks usually are studied using the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm. A large set of random walks are generated and those that fulfill the self-avoiding criteria are kept. I.E. they do not cross their own path.
